Why Trees?
1. One reason to use trees might be because you want to store information that naturally forms a hierarchy. For example, the file system on a computer:


file system
-----------
     /    <-- root
  /      \
...       home
      /          \
   ugrad        course
    /       /      |     \
  ...      cs101  cs112  cs113  
2. Trees (with some ordering e.g., BST) provide moderate access/search (quicker than Linked List and slower than arrays).
3. Trees provide moderate insertion/deletion (quicker than Arrays and slower than Unordered Linked Lists).
4. Like Linked Lists and unlike Arrays, Trees don’t have an upper limit on number of nodes as nodes are linked using pointers.

Main applications of trees include:
1. Manipulate hierarchical data.
2. Make information easy to search (see tree traversal).
3. Manipulate sorted lists of data.
4. As a workflow for compositing digital images for visual effects.
5. Router algorithms
6. Form of a multi-stage decision-making (see business chess).

Binary Tree: A tree whose elements have at most 2 children is called a binary tree. Since each element in a binary tree can have only 2 children, we typically name them the left and right child.

Binary Tree Representation in C: A tree is represented by a pointer to the topmost node in tree. If the tree is empty, then value of root is NULL.
A Tree node contains following parts.
1. Data
2. Pointer to left child
3. Pointer to right child

Uses of Inorder
In case of binary search trees (BST), Inorder traversal gives nodes in non-decreasing order. 
To get nodes of BST in non-increasing order, a variation of Inorder traversal where Inorder traversal s reversed can be used.

Uses of Preorder
Preorder traversal is used to create a copy of the tree.
Preorder traversal is also used to get prefix expression on of an expression tree. 

Uses of Postorder
Postorder traversal is used to delete the tree. Please see the question for deletion of tree for details. 
Postorder traversal is also useful to get the postfix expression of an expression tree.

The time complexity for all the traversals - O(n)
auxilliary spacce complexity - O(1) or O(n) --if function calling stack is considered.

30-03-2020
1)height of a binary tree


2) In level order traversal, we visit the nodes level by level from left to right.
You only have to complete the function. For example:

     1
      \
       2
        \
         5
        /  \
       3    6
        \
         4  
For the above tree, the level order traversal is 1 -> 2 -> 5 -> 3 -> 6 -> 4.

3)The poll() method of Queue Interface returns and removes the element at the front the container(Queue). It deletes the element in the container. 
The method does not throws an exception when the Queue is empty, it returns null instead.

4)A skewed binary tree is a type of binary tree in which all the nodes have only either one child or no child.
it means the tree has either left children or right children throughout.
